# Rendering a collection, modules

## console.log
- For God sake - use console.log()
- Correct format: console.log('props value is', props)

## Protip: Visual Studio Code snippets
- Snippets are templates which boost productivity by giving suggestions as to what you want to write.
- You can configure your own snippets
- There are lots of ready made extensions for Visual Studio Code
- Example of built in snippet: write 'log' and press 'tab' --> turns in to console.log(). 

## JavaScript Arrays
Some videos about functional programming in JavaScript:
1. [Higher-order functions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMUiFMZr7vk&list=PL0zVEGEvSaeEd9hlmCXrk5yUyqUag-n84)
  - Functions = values
  - Higher order functions: Pass smaller functions as values into a larger "Higher order function"
  - Call back functions: The function that is passed to another function
  - Composability: If a function1 and a function2 can be combined as HOF and CBF they are "composable"
  - Example:
```
var isDog = function(animal) {
  return animal.speciels === 'dog'

var dogs = animals.filter(isDog)
var otherAnimals = animals.reject(isDog)
```
  - The call back function "isDog" is "composable" with the two Higher order functions "dogs" and "otherAnimals"

2. [Map](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bCqtb-Z5YGQ&list=PL0zVEGEvSaeEd9hlmCXrk5yUyqUag-n84&index=2)
  - Map is a Higher Order Function that transforms the items in an array according to a given Call back function.
  - Example:
```
var names = animals.map((animal) => animal.name)
//prints the names of all animals
```

3. [Reduce basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wl98eZpkp-c&t=31s)
  - If you can't find a fitting ready made Higher Order Function for transforming an array you can use Reduce design your own.
  - Reduce needs: 1. Call back function 2. object (starting point)
  - The object will be passed as the first argument to the Call back function.
  - The iterated item will be passed as the second argument to the Call back function
  - Example:
```
var orders = [
  { amount: 250 },
  { amount: 400 },
  { amount: 100 },
  { amount: 325 }
]

var totalAmount = order.reduce((sum, order) =>
  return sum + order.amount
}, 0)
```
  - In the above:
  - Higher Order function reduce function: totalAmount
  - Object (starting point): 0
  - Call back function: return sum + order.amount
  - Iterated item: order
  - Works like this:
      1. Initiate sum as 0
      2. Itarate through list like this:
           1. Take given sum and add to it the current items amount
           2. return the new sum
      3. The returned sum will be passed to the next item in the list
      4. After last item: return the sum as totalAmount

## Event Handlers Revisited
See [Part 1 - Event Handlers](https://github.com/Catrovitch/Full-Stack-Open-Notes/blob/main/Part-1/Component-state-event-handlers.md)

## Rendering Collections
Link to example1 [here](./Examples/example1) .

Instead of hard-coding three lines of the following: 
```
<li>{notes[1].content}</li>
<li>{notes[2].content}</li>
<li>{notes[3].content}</li>
```

We can use map function to do this:
```
notes.map(note =>
  <li>
    {note.content}
  </li>)
```
This removes any hard coding, makes the code shorter and more readable.

## Key-Attribute
Link to example1 [here](./Examples/example1) . The above solution seems to work, but produces an error:
```
Warning: Each child in an array or iterator should have a unique "key" prop.
```
Let's add a key:
```
notes.map(note =>
  <li key={note.id}>
    {note.content}
  </li>)
```
The key is important since React uses the key attribute in array to update the view generated by the componenet in re-rendering. Read more about this in the [React documentation](https://react.dev/learn/preserving-and-resetting-state#option-2-resetting-state-with-a-key)

## Map
- Map is a built in Higher Order Function by which you can map a given call back function on all items in an array.
- Example:
```
const result = notes.map(note => note.id)
```
- Here we use the map function with the call back function note => note.id (which returns the prop id for any given object) to return the id's of all notes.

## Anti-pattern: Array Indexes as Keys
- Using the map function we can pass a second argument to access the indexes of an array.
- Example:
```
notes.map((note, i) => ...)
```
It's however not advicable to do this as this can have unexpected consequences. More about this [here](https://robinpokorny.medium.com/index-as-a-key-is-an-anti-pattern-e0349aece318)

## Refactoring Modules
- A common file structure is to keep each component in its own file as an ES6-module and import them to where they are needed
- Import through format: import [ComponenetName] from './components/[ComponentName]
- In the ComponentName the file format .js can be omitted.

## When the Application Breaks
- A common problem is that a components props are expected to be of a different type.
- console.log for God sake.
- 
## Web developer's oath
- Developer console open all the time
- Progress in small steps
- console.log()
- If my code doesn't work - I won't proceed

## Exercises 2.1-2.5
- [course_information](https://github.com/Catrovitch/Full-Stack-Open-Exercises/tree/main/part2/course_information)
- 
